dSYM Upload
===========

``sentry-cli`` can upload dSYM files to Sentry allow symbolication of iOS
app crashes.  It is also used behind the scenes if you use systems like fastlane
or build system integrations.

For general information about dSYM handling, please refer to
:ref:`uploading-dsyms` as well as :doc:`dif` for an introduction.

.. admonition:: Note

    Because dSYM files belong to projects, you will need to specify the
    organization and project you are working with.  For more information
    about this refer to :ref:`sentry-cli-working-with-projects`.

Basic Upload
------------

Use ``upload-dif`` upload dSYM files and specify the ``dsym`` type.  If invoked
during an Xcode build step, ``sentry-cli`` will automatically pick up the
``DWARF_DSYM_FOLDER_PATH`` environment variable. Otherwise, provide the path to
a dSYM or folder containing dSYMs as command line argument.

Since dSYMs have a unique signature, you do not need to associate them with
releases. However, the CLI will automatically scan for a ``Info.plist``
in the path provided to find the release.  If a release is found, the dSYMS
are associated automatically.  Even without this association, the uploaded
dSYMs will be used for symbolication.

Example::

    $ sentry-cli upload-dif -t dsym .

Upload Options
--------------

There are a few options you can supply for the upload process

``--no-bin``
    Exclude executables and libraries from the upload and search for dSYM files
    only.  For iOS apps, this setting can safely be activated since Sentry does
    not requrie them for symbolication.

``--derived-data``
    Search for dSYMs in derived data folder.  This is the default location Xcode
    stores its build output in.

``--no-zips``
    By default, sentry-cli will open and search ZIP archives for dSYMs. This is
    especially useful when downloading builds from iTunes Connect. Use this
    switch to disable if your search paths contain large ZIP archives without
    dSYMs to speed up the search.

``--force-foreground``
    This option forces the dSYM upload to happen in foreground.  This only
    affects uploads invoked from Xcode build steps.  By default, the upload
    process will detach when started from Xcode and finish in the
    background.  If you need to debug the upload process it might be
    useful to force the upload to run in the foreground.

``--info-plist``
    Overrides the search path for ``Info.plist``, usefule if it is located in
    a non-standard location.

``--no-reprocessing``
    This parameter prevents Sentry from triggering reprocessing right
    away.  It can be useful in some limited circumstances where you want
    to upload files in multiple batches and you want to ensure that Sentry
    does not start reprocessing before some optional dsyms are uploaded.
    Note though that someone can still in the meantime trigger
    reprocessing from the UI.

``--symbol-maps``
    Resolve hidden symbols in iTunes Connect builds using BCSymbolMaps. This is
    needed to symbolicate crashes if symbols were not uploaded to Apple when
    publishing the app in the AppStore.

Symbol Maps
-----------

If you are hiding debug symbols from Apple the debug files will not
contain many useful symbols.  In that case the sentry-cli upload will warn
you that it needs BCSymbolMaps::

    $ sentry-cli upload-dif ...
    > Found 34 debug information files
    > Warning: Found 10 symbol files with hidden symbols (need BCSymbolMaps)

In this case, you need the BCSymbolMaps that match your files.  Normally,
these get generated by the Xcode build process.  Supply the
``--symbol-maps`` parameter and point it to the folder containing the
symbol maps::

    $ sentry-cli upload-dif --symbol-maps path/to/symbolmaps path/to/debug/symbols
